IQ (Inphase/Quadrature)

This mode performs no additional processing beyond complex filtering
of the baseband signal. The output is stereo; the I (real) samples are
fed to the left channel and the Q (imaginary) samples are fed to the
right channel.

ISB (Independent Sideband)

This is identical to IQ mode except for an extra step taken during
filtering.  While in the frequency domain, the complex conjugates of
the positive frequency components are subtracted from the negative
frequency components, and the complex conjugates of the negative
frequencies are added to the positive frequencies. (These steps are
logically performed in parallel.) This puts the lower sideband on the
I (real) axis and the upper sideband on the Q (imaginary) axis, which
become the left and right channels of the stereo audio output,
respectively.

AM (Amplitude Modulation)

The complex baseband signal is envelope demodulated with the cmag
(complex magnitude) function to produce a real sample stream. The
sample phase is ignored.  The detected samples are averaged to obtain
the carrier amplitude, which is subtracted from each sample to remove
the DC that would otherwise appear at the audio output. The carrier
amplitude is also used to set the audio gain. The adjusted and scaled
real samples become mono audio.

CAM (Coherent Amplitude Modulation)

The DC output from the baseband filter is used to determine AM carrier
phase, with each complex sample rotated to put the carrier onto the +I
(positive real) axis. The receiver is automatically tuned to drive the
average baseband carrier frequency to zero.  As in envelope-detected
AM, the real samples are averaged to find the carrier amplitude, which
is used to remove DC from the modulated signal and to adjust
gain. When locked, the Q (imaginary) axis contains a small phase error
component plus channel noise.  The signal-to-noise ratio is estimated
by comparing the I and Q channel amplitudes.  The output is mono.

The tracking loop may not lock unless the receiver is manually tuned
to within +/- 10 Hz or so of the correct frequency. This mode is
especially useful for determining the TCXO offset of the SDR front end
from an external reference such as WWV/WWVH.

LSB/USB/CWL/CWU (Single Sideband)

The complex baseband signal is asymmetrically filtered to pass only positive
(upper sideband) or negative (lower sideband) frequencies. A
complex-to-real IFFT produces audio samples that are gain-adjusted and
sent to the mono output.  Since the Q (imaginary) output of the filter
is not needed, the C2R IFFT saves some time by not computing it.

The only differences between the four modes are the default filter frequency
settings.

A conventional fast-attack/hold/slow-decay AGC is provided. When the
audio amplitude exceeds a threshold, the gain is immediately reduced
to keep the amplitude below the threshold. A timer (default 1.1
seconds) is started, or restarted if it is already running.  When the
timer expires, the gain is increased at a default rate of 6 dB/sec
until the audio level again reaches the threshold.

FM (Frequency Modulation)

The complex baseband signal is detected by taking the complex argument
(i.e., the arctangent of the imaginary and real parts of each sample)
to obtain instantaneous carrier phase, and then differentiating to get
instantaneous frequency. (Compare this with AM, which takes the
complex magnitude.) Care is taken to get everything in the right
quadrant so the maximum frequency deviation is pi radians (1/2 cycle)
per sample period. No de-emphasis or other post-detection filtering is
performed. The output is mono.

The signal-to-noise ratio is calculated from the variance and RMS
magnitude of the complex baseband sample magnitudes. Since FM is a
constant envelope signal, the variance represents additive noise. If
the FM signal has an AM component, or if the deviation exceeds the
filter bandwidth, this will lower the SNR estimate. The SNR estimate
controls the squelch; if it is greater than 2 (3 dB), the squelch opens.

The gain is fixed so that peak deviation will produce an audio signal
at the correct amplitude, adjusted for the FM bandwidth.

When squelched, the demodulator simply stops sending data to the audio
output thread, and the audio device underruns and stops. This may
produce a slight click.

